
<p>
This is an incomplete list of methods you can try to debug a bayesian program that behaves badly.
</p>

<p>
= don&rsquo;t ignore warnings = If you ignore plWarnings, ignore them selectively and for a short, controlled blob of code using  <em> turns off plWarning/plError #38
 plError::ignore_this_message(38);
 ...
 </em> turns it back on  plError::ignore_this_message(38, false);
</p>

<p>
= print your objects = Most ProBT objects can be printed on streams. It includes types, symbols, variable conjunctions, kpl variable lists, kernels (conditional or not, instantiated or not, compiled or not), joint distributions... Don&rsquo;t forget to flush you streams if you want your debug messages to appear at the right place in your output.  // instantiate question, compile it, and display the result as a nice probability table  cerr &laquo; &ldquo;question: &quot; &laquo; question.instantiate(values).compile() &laquo; endl;
</p>

<p>
I run my programs using tee, so I can see the output on the console, as well as inspect it afterwards in a log (helps when you have lots of debugging output):  ./myprogram 2&gt;&amp;1 | tee log  # now &lsquo;log&rsquo; contains the output that scrolled on the console
</p>

<p>
= plot distributions = Use plKernel::plot to create gnuplot files that give a graphical representation of a distribution. Works only for kernels on one or two variables, and offline (you have to first run your program to generate the thing, and then run gnuplot on the generated file(s)).
</p>

<p>
You can also consider using Cédric&rsquo;s CGnuplot (or its extension, CGnuplotSurfaceGrapher) to control Gnuplot from your C/C++ program and plot things on the fly. CGnuplot is on <acronym title="Concurrent Versions System">CVS</acronym> in sources.pradalie/CGnuplot. CGnuplotSurfaceGrapher is made to easily plot in real time distributions tabulated with plKernel::tabulate().
</p>

<p>
There is a bug in this CGnuplot class. If you have several objects of this class, they may share the same Shell, and then some commands passed to gnuplot may be incomplete. For instance, when calling  CGobjetc1.plot(&rdquo;load file1.gnu&rdquo;)  CGobjetc2.plot(&rdquo;load file2.gnu&rdquo;) gnuplot input may actually be  load file1.gnu  oad file1.gnu without the second &ldquo;l&rdquo; !!
</p>

<p>
The solution is to add a &ldquo;\n&rdquo; at the end of the command  CGobjetc1.plot(&rdquo;load file1.gnu\n&rdquo;)  CGobjetc2.plot(&rdquo;load file2.gnu\n&rdquo;)
</p>

<p>
 = try to replace some parametric forms with plUniform = If a model behaves funnily (raises plWarnings, plErrors, does not do what&rsquo;s expected), try to replace some parametric forms with plUniform, to see if things look as you can predict.
</p>

<p>
= try genetic bayesian programming = If you have really strange behaviours (including spontaneous coredumps, unexplainable plErrors...), try compiling the questions you use to build bigger models. Try using compile_low_memory_use(). Try submitting a bug report, also.
</p>

<p>
= interpreting plWarnings and plErrors = 
</p>

<a name="plerror_4variable_not_found_in_values"></a><h5>plError 4: Variable not found in values</h5>
<div class="level5">

<p>
Example:  plError 4: Variable not found in values (variable: t, value: { delta=0 dir_ram=0 dir_target=-4 dispersion=0 dispersion_max=0 prox_ram=0 prox_target=0 t=0 t_pred=0 v_rot=-2 v_trans=-1 } )
</p>

<p>
In this case defined two variables with the name &lsquo;t&rsquo;. I &lsquo;ve used one to build the plValues, and I&rsquo;m trying to access the plValues using the other. It is a good idea to name all of your variables differently to avoid stupid messages like this one.
</p>

</div>

<a name="plwarning_50right_variable_not_pertinent_for_target_question"></a><h5>plWarning 50: Right variable not pertinent for target question</h5>
<div class="level5">

<p>
Example:  plWarning 50: (Right variable(s) dir_ram is (are) not pertinent for the target question P(v_rot v_trans | dir_ram)) That means that I&rsquo;m asking a question P(A|B) to some model, and the question actually does not depend on the value of B. For instance:  &raquo;&gt; from pl import *  &raquo;&gt; a = plSymbol(&rsquo;a&rsquo;, plIntegerType(0,1))  &raquo;&gt; b = plSymbol(&rsquo;b&rsquo;, plIntegerType(0,1))  &raquo;&gt; plJointDistribution(a ^ b, plUniform(a) * plUniform(b)).ask(a, b)  plWarning 50: (Right variable(s) b is (are) not pertinent for the target question P(a | b))  &lt;C plCndKernel instance at _a0e21a08_p_plCndKernel&gt;
</p>

<p>
Here P(A|B) = P(A) = U, whatever the value of B.
</p>

<p>
You can ignore this warning if you know what you&rsquo;re doing. You should check though, as it sometimes pinpoints an actual flaw in your model.
</p>

</div>
