<!-- Autogenerated manual conversion from WordPress XML -->
# Inference methods

*Original link:* http://yamlb.wordpress.com/2006/03/03/inference-methods/  
*pubDate:* Fri, 03 Mar 2006 18:40:33 +0000  
*post_id:* 30  
*status:* publish  
*type:* post

**Content (verbatim)**

List of inference methods I've heard about:

- *Exact and numerical* : reorganizing sum and products for exact inference on discrete variables (juction tree)
- * Exact and analytical* : using conjugate priors, posteriors can be analytically derived.
- *Appoximation by sampling* : All kind of sampling including the family of Markov chains Monte Carlo methods (Gibbs sampling seems to be often used)
- *Approximation with variational approach*: mean field, message passsing, belief propagation, (expectation propagation?). They consit in minimising a "distance" between the searched distribution with a member of  a class of candidate distributions
- *Approximations based on posterior modes* : Laplace approximation, EM-related algorithms

**Comments**

---
comment_id: 15
author: Yaroslav Bulatov
date: 2006-03-07 09:10:51
approved: 1

Maybe you've seen this before, Wainwright shows a very cool way to derive message passing algorithms through variational approach http://research.microsoft.com/uai2004/Slides/Wainwright.pdf

---
comment_id: 16
author: Pierre
date: 2006-11-20 21:18:36
approved: 1

Some corrections/precisions:

Belief propagation is exact on trees (de-localization of computations), expectation propagation and variational method are similar in the sense they are both minimizing a KL divergence between the true posterior p and an approximate one (q). But EP tries to (locally) minimize KL(p,q) and variational minimizes KL(q,p). This makes a difference, because the first leads to a "conservative", "secure", "inclusive" approximation, and variational results are too confident.
Mean Field is a simple variational method.
Also EM can be understood in the framework of variational approximation.
Loopy Belief propagation can be seen as a special case of EP with a fully factorized approximation family.
There are also all those "free energy minimization" methods, Kikuchi approximation, Generalised  belief propagation and Tree reweightseted BP stuff. 

Ouf !!!
