
<p>
This page describes the Kwiki markup language used by this kwiki.
</p>

<p>
= Level 1 Heading (H1) =
</p>

<a name="level_2_heading_h2"></a><h5>Level 2 Heading (H2)</h5>
<div class="level5">

</div>

<a name="level_3_heading_h3"></a><h4>Level 3 Heading (H3)</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
 ==== Level 4 Heading (H4)
</p>

<p>
===== Level 5 Heading (H5)
</p>

<p>
====== Level 6 Heading (H6)
</p>

<p>
The horizontal lines in this page are made with 4 or more dashes:
</p>
<hr noshade="noshade" size="1" />

<p>
Citation de code
</p>
<pre class="code">Paragraphs are separated by a blank line.</pre>
<pre class="code">Like this. Another paragraph.</pre>

<p>
*Bold text*, /italic text/, and _underscore text_.
</p>

<p>
/*Combination of bold and italics*/
</p>

<p>
Inline code like [=/etc/passwd] or [=<acronym title="Common Gateway Interface">CGI</acronym>::Kwiki]
</p>

<p>
 WikiLinks 
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
External links begin with <a href="http://," class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://," onclick="return svchk()" onkeypress="return svchk()" rel="nofollow">http://,</a> like <a href="http://www.freepan.org" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://www.freepan.org" onclick="return svchk()" onkeypress="return svchk()" rel="nofollow">http://www.freepan.org</a>
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
Forced wiki [links] are a alphanumeric string surrounded by square brackets.
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
Named http links have text with an http:// link inside, like [FreePAN <a href="http://www.freepan.org" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://www.freepan.org" onclick="return svchk()" onkeypress="return svchk()" rel="nofollow">http://www.freepan.org</a> Site]
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
Sometimes !WordsShouldNotMakeAWikiLink so put a &lsquo;!&rsquo; beforehand.
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
Same thing with !<a href="http://foobar.com" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://foobar.com" onclick="return svchk()" onkeypress="return svchk()" rel="nofollow">http://foobar.com</a>
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
Mailto links are just email addresses like foo@bar.com.
</p>
<pre class="code"></pre>

<p>
 Links to images display the image:
</p>

<p>
<a href="http://www.google.com/images/logo.gif" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="http://www.google.com/images/logo.gif" onclick="return svchk()" onkeypress="return svchk()" rel="nofollow">http://www.google.com/images/logo.gif</a>
</p>

<p>
 httpr://images/andrinople/lehy/media/images/get_fuzzy/getfuzzy2003152481218.gif
</p>

<p>
 Unordered lists begin with a &lsquo;* &lsquo;. The number of asterisks determines the level: * foo * bar <strong> boom
</strong> bam * baz
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> foo</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> bar</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">* boom</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">* bam</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> baz</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
&mdash;- Ordered lists begin with a &lsquo;0 ' (zero): 0 foo 0 bar 00 boom 00 bam 0 baz
</p>
<pre class="code">0 foo
0 bar
00 boom
00 bam
0 baz</pre>

<p>
&mdash;- You can mix lists too: * Today: 00 Eat icecream 00 Buy a pony * Tomorrow: 00 Eat more icecream 00 Buy another pony
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Today:</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
  00 Eat icecream
</p>
<pre class="code">00 Buy a pony
* Tomorrow:
00 Eat more icecream
00 Buy another pony</pre>

<p>
&mdash;- Any text that does not begin in the first column is rendered as preformatted text.
</p>
<pre class="code">    foo   bar
     x     y
     1     2</pre>

<p>
&mdash;- You can comment out wiki-text with &lsquo;# ' at the beginning of a line. This will make the text an html comment: # These lines have been  # commented out
</p>
<pre class="code"># These lines have been 
# commented out</pre>

<p>
&mdash;- Simple Tables:
</p>
<table class="inline">
	<tr>
		<td class="rightalign">        </td><td class="leftalign"> Dick   </td><td> Jane </td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td> height </td><td class="leftalign"> 72&rdquo;    </td><td class="leftalign"> 65&rdquo;  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td> weight </td><td> 130lbs </td><td> 150lbs </td>
	</tr>
</table>
<br />

<p>
You can now upload attachments using the /Attachments/ button on the left, and setup links to them in pages. This is a link to an attached file, on the same page: {file:machine.png}.  This is a link to an attached file, on the same page: {file:machine.png}. This is a link to an attached file, on another page: {file:RonanLeHy/brp_conclusion150.png}.  This is a link to an attached file, on another page: {file:RonanLeHy/brp_conclusion150.png}. This is a named link to an attached file: {file:machine.png l&rsquo;e-Mochione à laver}.  This is a named link to an attached file: {file:machine.png l&rsquo;e-Mochione à laver}. This is an included image, from an attached file, with a specified title: {img:machine.png l&rsquo;e-Mochione à laver}.  This is an included image, from an attached file, with a specified title: {img:machine.png l&rsquo;e-Mochione à laver}. This is a thumbnail of an attached image, with a specified title: {thumb:rage600.png l&rsquo;e-Mochione à laver}.  This is a thumbnail of an attached image, with a specified title: {thumb:rage600.png l&rsquo;e-Mochione à laver}.
</p>

</div>
